# Somatic_cnv_detect_tool
cfDNA sequencing cnv analyze pipeline
SCDT is a somatic CNV detection tool for detecting sub-chromosome CNVs in cf-DNA using whole genome sequencing (WGS) data or off-target reads in target sequencing data. Additional to using control samples for correcting genome position specific bias, two GC correction steps were performed, which regressed GC content of DNA fragments and that of genome bins, respectively. After GC correction, the coefficients of variation of copy ratios approximated the lower boundary of theoretical values, suggesting removing of almost all systematic errors. Finally, CNVs were detected by a piecewise least squares fitting based segmentation algorithm, which outperformed other segmentation methods. 
SCDT is comprised of  perl and R programs. No installation is necessary except for the required dependencies listed below.
Contact
email: qianzhaoyang@genomics.cn
       wangxiaofeng@genomics.cn
       shichang@genomics.cn
Download
You can use git to download the entire codebase . git clone https://github.com/Martiantian/Somatic_cnv_detect_tool.
Required software
The samtools version 1.2 or above must be installed.
Before SCDT
Before SCDT running,two steps must be finished as follows.First, the script scdt_cfg.pl under path Somatic_cnv_detect_tool/ need to be completed.Next, files used in both two GC correction steps need to be generated by Somatic_cnv_detect_tool/Stac_ref_GC.pl.
Run SCDT
To start SCDT, you can run 'perl somatic_cnv_detect_tool_180326.pl' to see usage and options.


